# Fraud and Regulatory Resistant P2P Platforms

# 1 Introduction

Atomic swaps have made it easy and trustless to swap between different cryptocurrencies, but one issue that the space still needs to solve is fiat to crypto gateways. The fiat gateway hurdle in most countries requires people to face KYC or other inconvenient methods of acquiring crypto with fiat. In this short paper, I seek to document my work and research into building fraud and regulatory-resistant p2p platforms.

# 2 Previous Work

The main fiat-crypto gateway that I have studied is purse.io. Purse.io was founded in 2014 and allowed people to "earn" Bitcoin by processing Amazon orders for people. The people processing orders were called "earners," and those creating orders and paying with Bitcoin were called "shoppers". This system has been used extensively, but Purse.io was the most popular and successful model. The "shopper" would create a wishlist on Amazon and pay for this list with Bitcoin to Purse.io. Purse.io would then act as an escrow service, while earners would purchase items from the wishlist to be sent to the shopper. Once the order was completed successfully, Purse.io would release the bitcoin to the earner. Purse.io acted as an easy and accessible way for people to acquire bitcoin using the Amazon platform. This system was more regulatory resistant and private than using a KYC exchange and had potentially better fraud prevention than a cash-based p2p crypto trade. The basic model of purse.io  can be combined with zk attestation (https://zkresear.ch/t/thinking-about-attestations/75) to create a fraud and regulatory resistant p2p platform. 

# 3 ZK Attestation
The basic idea behind ZK attestation is using zero-knowledge proofs to prove something about yourself. One example would be proving how many Amazon orders your account has completed. The technology behind zero-knowledge proofs is far beyond the scope of my writing here, but if you want to learn more about zk attestation, a good place to start is the reclaim protocol and the tools-notary project. The only thing you need to understand is that zk attention allows you to produce proof that proves a fact about an account that you own, i.e., how many Amazon orders you have completed, the age of your Amazon account, etc. This proof does not require you to share your login information and can be shared with anyone. ZK Attestation can be combined with a purse.io-like model to allow fraud and regulatory-resistant p2p platforms.

# 4 General Idea

Now that we know what ZK Attestion is and the basic layout of P2P fiat gateways, we can combine them to create a fraud and regulatory-resistant P2P Platform. I will be using Amazon in this example, but this service can be made with any platform, such as eBay, Walmart, etc. My example of Amazon would be very similar to Purse.io. Shoppers would add their items to the gift registry and place this list on a nonstop. An earner would then complete the order. In order to handle any potential disputes, you would assume Amazon is a trustworthy source of information; this is not 100% true, but it is good enough for our use case. For any dispute in the process, you would have both parties use a zk attention tool to prove information from the site. This info would be invoiced, tracking codes, wishlist links, etc. As long as Amazon is trustworthy, a moderator should be able to determine which side, if any, is at fault.

# 5 Preventing Account Ownership Fraud
Another significant issue in these p2p platforms is shoppers using stolen accounts to place orders with stolen cards to acquire cryptocurrency from the earners. One way to prevent this is to have the shoppers zk-attest to information that shows that they have historically owned the account. An example would be having the shopper produce proof of a six-month-old invoice showing the name and card number and evidence that the same payment info was used for the order from the earner. 